HTTP stands for Hypertext transfer protocol, and it is the basic protocol for almost all the web applications. More specifically, HTTP is the common protocol for computers and servers to request and send the information respectively. HTTP was created in 1997 and the first version is HTTP 1.1. This version is still in use on the web. And in 2015, HTTP 2 was introduced keeping the problems with HTTP 1.1 in mind. HTTP 2 is much faster and efficient is several ways. One of the ways is how it prioritizes the content during the loading the process.

Multiplexing: HTTP 1.1  loads the resources one after the other, so if one resource does not load it blocks the other resources untill the previous one loads. Whereas, HTTP/2 is able to use a single TCP connection to send multiple streams of data at once so that no one resource blocks any other resource.

Prioritization: Prioritization affects the web page load time. For example, if there are any large files that are to be loaded, they will prevent the webpage from loading due to this large file as it has to load first. HTTP 2 offers multiplexing which loads different files from a request simultaneously without blocking the other files like in HTTP 1.1. In HTTP/2, when a client makes a request for a webpage, the server sends several streams of data to the client at once, instead of sending one thing after another. This method of data delivery is known as multiplexing. We can decide if the text of a webpage loads first, or the CSS files, or the JavaScript, or whatever they feel is most important for the user experience.

Server push: Typically, a server only serves content to a client device if the client asks for it. However, this approach is not always practical for modern webpages, which often involve several dozen separate resources that the client must request. HTTP/2 solves this problem by allowing a server to "push" content to a client before the client asks for it. The server also sends a message letting the client know what pushed content to expect.

Header compression: Small files load more quickly than large ones. To speed up web performance, both HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2 compress HTTP messages to make them smaller. However, HTTP/2 uses a more advanced compression method called HPACK that eliminates redundant information in HTTP header packets. This eliminates a few bytes from every HTTP packet. Given the volume of HTTP packets involved in loading even a single webpage, those bytes add up quickly, resulting in faster loading.